[FLINK-20355][docs] Add new native K8s documentation page (#14305)
apache/flink: docs/deployment/resource-providers/native_kubernetes.md

### Preparation

A session will start all required Flink services (JobManager and TaskManagers) so that you can submit programs to the cluster.
Note that you can run multiple programs per session.
This *Getting Started* section assumes a running Kubernetes cluster fulfilling the following requirements:

{% highlight bash %}
$ ./bin/kubernetes-session.sh
{% endhighlight %}
- Kubernetes >= 1.9.
- KubeConfig, which has access to list, create, delete pods and services, configurable via `~/.kube/config`. You can verify permissions by running `kubectl auth can-i <list|create|edit|delete> pods`.
- Enabled Kubernetes DNS.
- `default` service account with [RBAC](#rbac) permissions to create, delete pods.

All the Kubernetes configuration options can be found in our [configuration guide]({% link deployment/config.md %}#kubernetes).
If you have problems setting up a Kubernetes cluster, then take a look at [how to setup a Kubernetes cluster](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/).

**Example**: Issue the following command to start a session cluster with 4 GB of memory and 2 CPUs with 4 slots per TaskManager:
### Starting a Flink Session on Kubernetes

> In this example we override the `resourcemanager.taskmanager-timeout` setting to make

Reviewer: I remember some users complain about the TaskManager timed out too fast and could not debugging the logs. After then we add this part in the documentation.

Author: Ok, then let me add this to a more advanced section.

> $ kubectl delete deployment/my-first-flink-cluster

Author: Is there any benefit of the `echo 'stop'` command? I was choosing `kubectl delete` because it seems simpler. The `KubernetesSessionCli` seems to do the same. On the other hand, if we want to change this behaviour in the future, it might be better to hide this detail from the user via `bin/kubernetes.session.sh`.

> $ kubectl delete deployment/my-first-flink-cluster

Reviewer: Actually they have the same effect. I am not aware that we have a strong reason to change the behavior of `echo 'stop'` and `kubectl delete deploy`. So keep it like now.

> $ kubectl delete deployment/my-first-flink-cluster

Author: Alright.

  You can then use `localhost:8081` to submit a Flink job to the session or view the dashboard.

{% highlight bash %}
$ kubectl port-forward service/<ServiceName> 8081
{% endhighlight %}

- **NodePort**: Exposes the service on each Node’s IP at a static port (the `NodePort`).
  `<NodeIP>:<NodePort>` could be used to contact the Job Manager Service.
  `NodeIP` could be easily replaced with Kubernetes ApiServer address.
  You could find it in your kube config file.

- **LoadBalancer**: Exposes the service externally using a cloud provider’s load balancer.
  Since the cloud provider and Kubernetes needs some time to prepare the load balancer, you may get a `NodePort` JobManager Web Interface in the client log.
  You can use `kubectl get services/<cluster-id>-rest` to get EXTERNAL-IP and then construct the load balancer JobManager Web Interface manually `http://<EXTERNAL-IP>:8081`.

Please reference the official documentation on [publishing services in Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/#publishing-services-service-types) for more information.

> ### Accessing the Logs

Author: This is a good idea. I am wondering whether the general pattern shouldn't be part of the logging documentation cc @zentol who's currently working on it. Then the `native_kubernetes.md` could simply state how to change the `log4j.properties` via the `ConfigMap`.

> ### Accessing the Logs

Author: I have added the K8s specific part to the documentation. Please take a look.

> ### Accessing the Logs

Reviewer 2: Documentation for configuring log4j, as in modifying the log4j properties file contents, should go into the logging documentation; that said we currently do not nor do I intend to add such documentation at the moment.

_How_ to do this on Kubernetes (i.e., editing the config map) should stay here.

# install Python Flink
RUN pip3 install apache-flink
COPY /path/of/python/codes /opt/python_codes
Please reference the official documentation on [publishing services in Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/#publishing-services-service-types) for more information.

# if there are third party python dependencies, users can install them when building the image
COPY /path/to/requirements.txt /opt/requirements.txt
RUN pip3 install -r requirements.txt
### Accessing the Logs

# if the job requires external java dependencies, they should be built into the image as well
RUN mkdir -p $FLINK_HOME/usrlib
COPY /path/of/external/jar/dependencies $FLINK_HOME/usrlib/
{% endhighlight %}
By default, the JobManager and TaskManager will output the logs to the console and `/opt/flink/log` in each pod simultaneously.
The `STDOUT` and `STDERR` output will only be redirected to the console.
You can access them via

Use the following command to start a PyFlink application, assuming the application image name is **my-pyflink-app:latest**.
{% highlight bash %}

> $ ./bin/flink run-application -p 8 -t kubernetes-application \

Author: I think we need a page for describing in general how to deploy a Python program. What I am not so sure is whether we need this for every resource provider. Here, for example, there is not much specific to K8s. One needs to bundle the Python dependencies and then call `flink` with some special parameters which, hopefully, are the same for all different types of deployments.

> $ ./bin/flink run-application -p 8 -t kubernetes-application \

Reviewer: Maybe @dianfu @shuiqiangchen could share more information here.

> $ ./bin/flink run-application -p 8 -t kubernetes-application \

Reviewer 3: Thank you for your clarification. At my point of view, it would be better to add a `Deployment` page under Python API for describing how to deploy a Python program on different cluster(standalone/Yarn/K8s).

> $ ./bin/flink run-application -p 8 -t kubernetes-application \

Author: Is the Python deployment specific to the used resource-provider (Yarn, K8s, standalone)? Where exactly in the current structure would you put it @shuiqiangchen? Can you provide the full path (from a navigational point of view, e.g. Deployment -> Resource Providers -> Standalone -> Docker).

> $ ./bin/flink run-application -p 8 -t kubernetes-application \

Reviewer 3: No, the Python deployment does not require any specified resource-provider. So here I'm in favour of your suggestion that adding a new page to generally describe different deployments. And the full path might be Application Development -> Python API -> Deployment, how do you think about it?

> $ ./bin/flink run-application -p 8 -t kubernetes-application \

Author: Hmm, deployment under development might be a bit confusing. Maybe we can add a `Deployment -> Python` page and link this page from `Application Development -> Python API`?

> $ ./bin/flink run-application -p 8 -t kubernetes-application \

Reviewer 3: Yes, I feel the same that we should illustrate development and deployment separately. I will add the `Deployment -> Python` page in a new PR.

When the deployment is deleted, all other resources will be deleted automatically.

Using the following command to start a native Flink application cluster on Kubernetes with high availability configured.
{% highlight bash %}
$ ./bin/flink run-application -p 8 -t kubernetes-application \
  -Dkubernetes.cluster-id=<ClusterId> \
  -Dtaskmanager.memory.process.size=4096m \
  -Dkubernetes.taskmanager.cpu=2 \
  -Dtaskmanager.numberOfTaskSlots=4 \
  -Dkubernetes.container.image=<CustomImageName> \
  -Dhigh-availability=org.apache.flink.kubernetes.highavailability.KubernetesHaServicesFactory \
  -Dhigh-availability.storageDir=s3://flink/flink-ha \
  -Drestart-strategy=fixed-delay -Drestart-strategy.fixed-delay.attempts=10 \
  -Dcontainerized.master.env.ENABLE_BUILT_IN_PLUGINS=flink-s3-fs-hadoop-{{site.version}}.jar \
  -Dcontainerized.taskmanager.env.ENABLE_BUILT_IN_PLUGINS=flink-s3-fs-hadoop-{{site.version}}.jar \
  local:///opt/flink/examples/streaming/StateMachineExample.jar
$ kubectl delete deployment/<cluster-id>
{% endhighlight %}

## Kubernetes concepts

> ### Namespaces

Author: If this has come up several times, then I'll re-add it. Thanks for the information.

Flink's native Kubernetes integration allows you to directly deploy Flink on a running Kubernetes cluster.
Moreover, Flink is able to dynamically allocate and de-allocate TaskManagers depending on the required resources because it can directly talk to Kubernetes.

### Preparation

The *Getting Started* section assumes a running Kubernetes cluster fulfilling the following requirements:

- Kubernetes >= 1.9.
- KubeConfig, which has access to list, create, delete pods and services, configurable via `~/.kube/config`. You can verify permissions by running `kubectl auth can-i <list|create|edit|delete> pods`.
- Enabled Kubernetes DNS.
- `default` service account with [RBAC](#rbac) permissions to create, delete pods.

If you have problems setting up a Kubernetes cluster, then take a look at [how to setup a Kubernetes cluster](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/).

### Starting a Flink Session on Kubernetes

Once you have your Kubernetes cluster running and `kubectl` is configured to point to it, you can launch a Flink session cluster via

{% highlight bash %}
# (1) Start Kubernetes session
$ ./bin/kubernetes-session.sh -Dkubernetes.cluster-id=my-first-flink-cluster

# (2) Submit example job

> $ ./bin/flink run --target kubernetes-session -Dkubernetes.cluster-id=my-first-flink-cluster ./examples/streaming/TopSpeedWindowing.jar

Author: I think you are right.

### Application Mode

The [Application Mode]({% link deployment/index.md %}#application-mode) requires that the user code is bundled together with the Flink image because it runs the user code's `main()` method on the cluster.
The Application Mode makes sure that all Flink components are properly cleaned up after the termination of the application.

The Flink community provides a [base Docker image]({% link deployment/resource-providers/standalone/docker.md %}#docker-hub-flink-images) which can be used to bundle the user code:

{% highlight dockerfile %}
FROM flink
RUN mkdir -p $FLINK_HOME/usrlib
COPY /path/of/my-flink-job.jar $FLINK_HOME/usrlib/my-flink-job.jar
{% endhighlight %}

After creating and publishing the Docker image under `custom-image-name`, you can start an Application cluster with the following command

{% highlight bash %}
$ ./bin/flink run-application --target kubernetes-application \
-Dkubernetes.cluster-id=my-first-application-cluster \
-Dkubernetes.container.image=custom-image-name \

> local:///opt/flink/usrlib/my-flink-job.jar

Reviewer 4: I just realize that all of the commands have `$` as a prefix on this page. I'm fine adding it as long as it's consistent. YARN and Mesos don't have it right now.

> local:///opt/flink/usrlib/my-flink-job.jar

Author: I think `$` makes it a bit easier to parse. I'd be fine to keep it consistent on every page for the time being. But if you are ok with it and @rmetzger as well, then we might simply adopt it.

{% endhighlight %}

<span class="label label-info">Note</span> `local` is the only supported scheme in application mode.

The `kubernetes.cluster-id` option specifies the cluster name and must be unique.
If you do not specify this option, then Flink will generate a random name.

The `kubernetes.container.image` option specifies the image to start the pods with.

Once the application cluster is deployed you can interact with it:

{% highlight bash %}

> # List running job on the cluster
> $ ./bin/flink list --target kubernetes-application -Dkubernetes.cluster-id=my-first-application-cluster
> # Cancel running job
> $ ./bin/flink cancel --target kubernetes-application -Dkubernetes.cluster-id=my-first-application-cluster <jobId>

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
# List running job on the cluster
./bin/flink \
  list \
  --target kubernetes-application \
  -Dkubernetes.cluster-id=my-first-application-cluster
# Cancel running job
./bin/flink \
  cancel \
  --target kubernetes-application \
  -Dkubernetes.cluster-id=my-first-application-cluster \
  <jobId>
```
I removed the leading `$` since we don't use this notation anywhere else. Additionally, I added indentation for consistency purposes (even though I wouldn't object here if someones says that the previous version was more readable since both commands had a quite similar structure).

Author: I would not apply the formatting. Moreover, the command `list` and `cancel` should be in the same line as `bin/flink`.

{% endhighlight %}

You can override configurations set in `conf/flink-conf.yaml` by passing key-value pairs `-Dkey=value` to `bin/flink`.

> ### Session Mode

Reviewer 4: I also added unsupported modes as sections to the Mesos documentation. This way it's more explicit that certain modes are not supported. I'm fine with both approaches but would rather do it consistently. Does anyone has a preferred approach?

Author: Being explicit about it, is easier for the user. I'll add a section where we state that the per-job mode is not supported.

> You have seen the deployment of a Session cluster in the [Getting Started](#getting-started) guide at the top of the page.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You have seen the deployment of a Session cluster in the [Getting Started](#getting-started) guide at the top of this page.
```

> The Session Mode can be run in two modes:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The Session Mode can be executed in two modes:
```
Not sure if I'm too picky here but "executed" sounds better here. I connect "run" with jobs. ...just as a proposal.

Author: Fair enough. I am fine with it.

* **detached mode** (default): The `kubernetes-session.sh` deploys the Flink cluster on Kubernetes and then terminates.

* **attached mode** (`-Dexecution.attached=true`): The `kubernetes-session.sh` stays alive and allows entering commands to control the running Flink cluster.
  For example, `stop` stops the running Session cluster.
  Type `help` to list all supported commands.

In order to re-attach to a running Session cluster with the cluster id `my-first-flink-cluster` use the following command:

{% highlight bash %}

> $ ./bin/kubernetes-session.sh -Dkubernetes.cluster-id=my-first-flink-cluster -Dexecution.attached=true

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
$ ./bin/kubernetes-session.sh \
  -Dkubernetes.cluster-id=my-first-flink-cluster \
  -Dexecution.attached=true
```

{% endhighlight %}

You can override configurations set in `conf/flink-conf.yaml` by passing key-value pairs `-Dkey=value` to `bin/kubernetes-session.sh`.

#### Stop a Running Session Cluster

In order to stop a running Session Cluster with cluster id `my-first-flink-cluster` you can either [delete the Flink deployment](#manual-resource-cleanup) or use:

{% highlight bash %}

> $ echo 'stop' | ./bin/kubernetes-session.sh -Dkubernetes.cluster-id=my-first-flink-cluster -Dexecution.attached=true

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
$ echo 'stop' | ./bin/kubernetes-session.sh \
  -Dkubernetes.cluster-id=my-first-flink-cluster \
  -Dexecution.attached=true
```

Author: I will update the PR.

{% endhighlight %}

{% top %}

## Flink on Kubernetes Reference

### Configuring Flink on Kubernetes

The Kubernetes-specific configuration options are listed on the [configuration page]({% link deployment/config.md %}#kubernetes).

### Accessing Flink's Web UI

Flink's Web UI and REST endpoint can be exposed in several ways via the [kubernetes.rest-service.exposed.type]({% link deployment/config.md %}#kubernetes-rest-service-exposed-type) configuration option.

- **ClusterIP**: Exposes the service on a cluster-internal IP.
  The Service is only reachable within the cluster.

>   If you want to access the Job Manager ui or submit job to the existing session, you need to start a local proxy.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  If you want to access the JobManager UI or submit job to the existing session, you need to start a local proxy.
```

  You can then use `localhost:8081` to submit a Flink job to the session or view the dashboard.

{% highlight bash %}
$ kubectl port-forward service/<ServiceName> 8081
{% endhighlight %}

- **NodePort**: Exposes the service on each Node’s IP at a static port (the `NodePort`).

>   `<NodeIP>:<NodePort>` can be used to contact the Job Manager Service.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  `<NodeIP>:<NodePort>` can be used to contact the JobManager service.
```
* Usually, `service` is lowercased. 
* And `JobManager` should be camelcased.

  `NodeIP` can also be replaced with the Kubernetes ApiServer address. 
  You can find its address in your kube config file.

- **LoadBalancer**: Exposes the service externally using a cloud provider’s load balancer.
  Since the cloud provider and Kubernetes needs some time to prepare the load balancer, you may get a `NodePort` JobManager Web Interface in the client log.

>   You can use `kubectl get services/<cluster-id>-rest` to get EXTERNAL-IP and then construct the load balancer JobManager Web Interface manually `http://<EXTERNAL-IP>:8081`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  You can use `kubectl get services/<cluster-id>-rest` to get EXTERNAL-IP and construct the load balancer JobManager Web Interface manually `http://<EXTERNAL-IP>:8081`.
```

> Please reference the official documentation on [publishing services in Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/#publishing-services-service-types) for more information.

Reviewer 4: Here I'm not 100% sure whether `reference` is the right word? 🤔 Alternatively, something like "Please read [...]" might work as well.

Author: I'd go with "please refer to the official..."

This behaviour can make it harder to access the logs of the respective pods.
You can increase the time before idling TaskManagers are released by configuring [resourcemanager.taskmanager-timeout]({% link deployment/config.md %}#resourcemanager-taskmanager-timeout) so that you have more time to inspect the log files.

#### Changing the Log Level Dynamically

If you have configured your logger to [detect configuration changes automatically]({% link deployment/advanced/logging.md %}), then you can dynamically adapt the log level by changing the respective ConfigMap (assuming that the cluster id is `my-first-flink-cluster`):

{% highligh bash %}
$ kubectl edit cm flink-config-my-first-flink-cluster
{% endhighlight %}

### Using Plugins

In order to use [plugins]({% link deployment/filesystems/plugins.md %}), you must copy them to the correct location in the Flink JobManager/TaskManager pod.
You can use the [built-in plugins]({% link deployment/resource-providers/standalone/docker.md %}#using-plugins) without mounting a volume or building a custom Docker image.
For example, use the following command to enable the S3 plugin for your Flink session cluster.

{% highlight bash %}

> $ ./bin/kubernetes-session.sh
> -Dcontainerized.master.env.ENABLE_BUILT_IN_PLUGINS=flink-s3-fs-hadoop-{{site.version}}.jar \
> -Dcontainerized.taskmanager.env.ENABLE_BUILT_IN_PLUGINS=flink-s3-fs-hadoop-{{site.version}}.jar

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
$ ./bin/kubernetes-session.sh
  -Dcontainerized.master.env.ENABLE_BUILT_IN_PLUGINS=flink-s3-fs-hadoop-{{site.version}}.jar \
  -Dcontainerized.taskmanager.env.ENABLE_BUILT_IN_PLUGINS=flink-s3-fs-hadoop-{{site.version}}.jar
```
Indentation added

{% endhighlight %}

### Custom Docker Image

If you want to use a custom Docker image, then you can specify it via the configuration option `kubernetes.container.image`.
The Flink community provides a rich [Flink Docker image]({% link deployment/resource-providers/standalone/docker.md %}) which can be a good starting point.

> See [how to customize Flink's Docker image]({% link deployment/resource-providers/standalone/docker.md %}l#customize-flink-image) for how to enable plugins, add dependencies and other options.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
See [how to customize Flink's Docker image]({% link deployment/resource-providers/standalone/docker.md %}#customize-flink-image) for how to enable plugins, add dependencies and other options.
```

### Using Secrets

[Kubernetes Secrets](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/) is an object that contains a small amount of sensitive data such as a password, a token, or a key.

> Such information might otherwise be put in a Pod specification or in an image.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Such information might otherwise be put in a pod specification or in an image.
```

Flink on Kubernetes can use Secrets in two ways:

* Using Secrets as files from a pod;

* Using Secrets as environment variables;

#### Using Secrets as Files From a Pod

The following command will mount the secret `mysecret` under the path `/path/to/secret` in the started pods:

{% highlight bash %}
$ ./bin/kubernetes-session.sh -Dkubernetes.secrets=mysecret:/path/to/secret
{% endhighlight %}

The username and password of the secret `mysecret` can then be found stored in the files `/path/to/secret/username` and `/path/to/secret/password`.
For more details see the [official Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/#using-secrets-as-files-from-a-pod).

#### Using Secrets as Environment Variables

The following command will expose the secret `mysecret` as environment variable in the started pods:

{% highlight bash %}

> $ ./bin/kubernetes-session.sh -Dkubernetes.env.secretKeyRef=env:SECRET_USERNAME,secret:mysecret,key:username;\
> env:SECRET_PASSWORD,secret:mysecret,key:password

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
$ ./bin/kubernetes-session.sh \
  -Dkubernetes.env.secretKeyRef=\
      env:SECRET_USERNAME,secret:mysecret,key:username;\
      env:SECRET_PASSWORD,secret:mysecret,key:password
```
I'm not sure here about the formatting - maybe, my proposal isn't an improvement. But I wanted to bring it up for discussion, anyway.

Author: Good question, maybe

```
$ ./bin/kubernetes-session.sh -Dkubernetes.env.secretKeyRef=\
      env:SECRET_USERNAME,secret:mysecret,key:username;\
      env:SECRET_PASSWORD,secret:mysecret,key:password
```

as an alternative.

{% endhighlight %}

The env variable `SECRET_USERNAME` contains the username and the env variable `SECRET_PASSWORD` contains the password of the secret `mysecret`.
For more details see the [official Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/#using-secrets-as-environment-variables).

### High-Availability on Kubernetes

For high availability on Kubernetes, you can use the [existing high availability services]({% link deployment/ha/index.md %}).

### Manual Resource Cleanup

Flink uses [Kubernetes OwnerReference's](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/garbage-collection/) to clean up all cluster components.

> All the Flink created resources, including `ConfigMap`, `Service`, `Pod`, have been set the OwnerReference to `deployment/<cluster-id>`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
All the Flink-created resources, including `ConfigMap`, `Service`, `Pod`, have been set the OwnerReference to `deployment/<cluster-id>`.
```

> All the Flink created resources, including `ConfigMap`, `Service`, `Pod`, have been set the OwnerReference to `deployment/<cluster-id>`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
All the Flink created resources, including `ConfigMap`, `Service`, and `Pod`, have the `OwnerReference` being set to `deployment/<cluster-id>`.
```

Author: Sounds good.

> When the deployment is deleted, all other resources will be deleted automatically.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
When the deployment is deleted, all related resources will be deleted automatically.
```

{% highlight bash %}
$ kubectl delete deployment/<cluster-id>
{% endhighlight %}

### Supported Kubernetes Versions

> Currently, all Kubernetes version `>= 1.9` are supported.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Currently, all Kubernetes versions `>= 1.9` are supported.
```

### Namespaces

[Namespaces in Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/namespaces/) divide cluster resources between multiple users via [resource quotas](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/policy/resource-quotas/).
Flink on Kubernetes can use namespaces to launch Flink clusters.
The namespace can be configured via [kubernetes.namespace]({% link deployment/config.md %}#kubernetes-namespace).

### RBAC

Role-based access control ([RBAC](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/)) is a method of regulating access to compute or network resources based on the roles of individual users within an enterprise.
Users can configure RBAC roles and service accounts used by JobManager to access the Kubernetes API server within the Kubernetes cluster.

> Every namespace has a default service account, however, the `default` service account may not have the permission to create or delete pods within the Kubernetes cluster.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Every namespace has a default service account. However, the `default` service account may not have the permission to create or delete pods within the Kubernetes cluster.
```

> Users may need to update the permission of `default` service account or specify another service account that has the right role bound.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Users may need to update the permission of the `default` service account or specify another service account that has the right role bound.
```

Reviewer 4: The section below should be adapted as well. There's a missing `the` in there as well.
More importantly, I would suggest change the name for the Service Account from `flink` to something else. That caused some confusion on my side when I started. `flink` as a name is overloaded. We should use something like `flink-service-account` instead.

Author: Good idea. I'll update it.

under the License.
-->

This page describes how to deploy Flink natively on [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io).

* This will be replaced by the TOC
{:toc}

## Getting Started

This *Getting Started* section guides you through setting up a fully functional Flink Cluster on Kubernetes.

### Introduction

Kubernetes is a popular container-orchestration system for automating computer application deployment, scaling, and management.

> Flink's native Kubernetes integration allows to directly deploy Flink on a running Kubernetes cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Flink's native Kubernetes integration allows you to directly deploy Flink on a running Kubernetes cluster.
```

Moreover, Flink is able to dynamically allocate and de-allocate TaskManagers depending on the required resources because it can directly talk to Kubernetes.

### Preparation

> This *Getting Started* section assumes a running Kubernetes cluster fulfilling the following requirements:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This section assumes a running Kubernetes cluster fulfilling the following requirements:
```
?

Author: I think I wanted to write `The *Getting Started* section...`

- Kubernetes >= 1.9.
- KubeConfig, which has access to list, create, delete pods and services, configurable via `~/.kube/config`. You can verify permissions by running `kubectl auth can-i <list|create|edit|delete> pods`.
- Enabled Kubernetes DNS.
- `default` service account with [RBAC](#rbac) permissions to create, delete pods.

If you have problems setting up a Kubernetes cluster, then take a look at [how to setup a Kubernetes cluster](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/).

### Starting a Flink Session on Kubernetes

> Once you have your Kubernetes cluster running and configured your `kubectl` to point to it, you can launch a Flink session cluster via

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once you have your Kubernetes cluster running and `kubectl` is configured to point to it, you can launch a Flink session cluster via
```
Had to do a double-take because I read it as "Once you have your Kubernetes cluster running and configured[, then] kubetcl[...]"

Author: Your suggestion is good.

### Application Mode

The [Application Mode]({% link deployment/index.md %}#application-mode) requires that the user code is bundled together with the Flink image because it runs the user code's `main()` method on the cluster.
The Application Mode makes sure that all Flink components are properly cleaned up after the termination of the application.

The Flink community provides a [base Docker image]({% link deployment/resource-providers/standalone/docker.md %}#docker-hub-flink-images) which can be used to bundle the user code:

{% highlight dockerfile %}
FROM flink
RUN mkdir -p $FLINK_HOME/usrlib
COPY /path/of/my-flink-job.jar $FLINK_HOME/usrlib/my-flink-job.jar
{% endhighlight %}

After creating and publishing the Docker image under `custom-image-name`, you can start an Application cluster with the following command

{% highlight bash %}
$ ./bin/flink run-application --target kubernetes-application \
-Dkubernetes.cluster-id=my-first-application-cluster \
-Dkubernetes.container.image=custom-image-name \
local:///opt/flink/usrlib/my-flink-job.jar
{% endhighlight %}

<span class="label label-info">Note</span> `local` is the only supported scheme in application mode.

> The configuration `kubernetes.cluster-id` specifies the cluster name and must unique.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `kubernetes.cluster-id` option specifies the cluster name and must be unique.
```

If you do not specify this option, then Flink will generate a random name.

> The configuration `kubernetes.container.image` specifies the image to start the pods with.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `kubernetes.container.image` option specifies the image to start the pods with.
```

Once the application cluster is deployed you can interact with it:

{% highlight bash %}
# List running job on the cluster
$ ./bin/flink list --target kubernetes-application -Dkubernetes.cluster-id=my-first-application-cluster
# Cancel running job
$ ./bin/flink cancel --target kubernetes-application -Dkubernetes.cluster-id=my-first-application-cluster <jobId>
{% endhighlight %}

> The system will use the configuration in `conf/flink-conf.yaml` and override these values with key-value pairs `-Dkey=value` which are provided to `bin/flink`.

Reviewer 2: The phrasing is a bit confusing. Maybe this should just like to the CLI docs?
```suggestion
You can override configurations set in `conf/flink-conf.yaml` by passing key-value pairs `-Dkey=value` to `bin/flink`.
```

Author: Yes, your suggestion is much better. Thanks!

### Session Mode

You have seen the deployment of a Session cluster in the [Getting Started](#getting-started) guide at the top of the page.

The Session Mode can be run in two modes:

* **detached mode** (default): The `kubernetes-session.sh` deploys the Flink cluster on Kubernetes and then terminates.

> * **attached mode** (`-Dexecution.attached=true`): The `kubernetes-session.sh` stays alive and allows entering commands controlling the running Flink cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **attached mode** (`-Dexecution.attached=true`): The `kubernetes-session.sh` stays alive and allows entering commands to control the running Flink cluster.
```
?

  For example, `stop` stops the running Session cluster.

>   Type `help` for seeing all the supported commands.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Type `help` to list all supported commands.
```

In order to re-attach to a running Session cluster with the cluster id `my-first-flink-cluster` use the following command:

{% highlight bash %}
$ ./bin/kubernetes-session.sh -Dkubernetes.cluster-id=my-first-flink-cluster -Dexecution.attached=true
{% endhighlight %}

> The system will use the configuration in `conf/flink-conf.yaml` and override these values with key-value pairs `-Dkey=value` which are provided to `bin/kubernetes-session.sh`.

Reviewer 2: same as above

Author: Will change it.

#### Stop a Running Session Cluster

In order to stop a running Session Cluster with cluster id `my-first-flink-cluster` you can either [delete the Flink deployment](#manual-resource-cleanup) or use:

{% highlight bash %}
$ echo 'stop' | ./bin/kubernetes-session.sh -Dkubernetes.cluster-id=my-first-flink-cluster -Dexecution.attached=true
{% endhighlight %}

{% top %}

## Flink on Kubernetes Reference

### Configuring Flink on Kubernetes

> The Kubernetes-specific configurations are listed on the [configuration page]({% link deployment/config.md %}#kubernetes).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Kubernetes-specific configuration options are listed on the [configuration page]({% link deployment/config.md %}#kubernetes).
```

### Accessing Flink's Web UI

> There are several ways to expose Flink's Web UI and REST endpoint.
> This can be configured using [kubernetes.rest-service.exposed.type]({% link deployment/config.md %}#kubernetes-rest-service-exposed-type).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Flink's Web UI and REST endpoint can be exposed in several ways via the [kubernetes.rest-service.exposed.type]({% link deployment/config.md %}#kubernetes-rest-service-exposed-type) configuration option.
```

- **ClusterIP**: Exposes the service on a cluster-internal IP.
  The Service is only reachable within the cluster.
  If you want to access the Job Manager ui or submit job to the existing session, you need to start a local proxy.
  You can then use `localhost:8081` to submit a Flink job to the session or view the dashboard.

{% highlight bash %}
$ kubectl port-forward service/<ServiceName> 8081
{% endhighlight %}

- **NodePort**: Exposes the service on each Node’s IP at a static port (the `NodePort`).

>   `<NodeIP>:<NodePort>` could be used to contact the Job Manager Service.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  `<NodeIP>:<NodePort>` can be used to contact the Job Manager Service.
```

>   `NodeIP` could be easily replaced with Kubernetes ApiServer address.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  `NodeIP` can be replaced with the Kubernetes ApiServer address.
```

Author: yes, will change it.

>   You could find it in your kube config file.

Reviewer 2: find what?

Reviewer: > You could find it in your kube config file.

I think it means "Kubernetes ApiServer address" here.

Author: I'll rephrase it into: "`NodeIP` can also be replaced with Kubernetes ApiServer address. You can find its address in your kube config file."

Please reference the official documentation on [publishing services in Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/#publishing-services-service-types) for more information.

### Logging

The Kubernetes integration exposes `conf/log4j-console.properties` and `conf/logback-console.xml` as a ConfigMap to the pods.
Changes to these files will be visible to a newly started cluster.

#### Accessing the Logs

By default, the JobManager and TaskManager will output the logs to the console and `/opt/flink/log` in each pod simultaneously.
The `STDOUT` and `STDERR` output will only be redirected to the console.
You can access them via

{% highlight bash %}
$ kubectl logs <pod-name>
{% endhighlight %}

If the pod is running, you can also use `kubectl exec -it <pod-name> bash` to tunnel in and view the logs or debug the process.

#### Accessing the Logs of the TaskManagers

Flink will automatically de-allocate idling TaskManagers in order to not waste resources.
This behaviour can make it harder to access the logs of the respective pods.

> You can increase the time before idling TaskManagers are released by configuring [resourcemanager.taskmanager-timeout]({% link deployment/config.md %}#resourcemanager-taskmanager-timeout) so that you have more time inspecting the log files.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can increase the time before idling TaskManagers are released by configuring [resourcemanager.taskmanager-timeout]({% link deployment/config.md %}#resourcemanager-taskmanager-timeout) so that you have more time to inspect the log files.
```

Author: Will update it.

Moreover, Flink is able to dynamically allocate and de-allocate TaskManagers depending on the required resources because it can directly talk to Kubernetes.

### Preparation

The *Getting Started* section assumes a running Kubernetes cluster fulfilling the following requirements:

- Kubernetes >= 1.9.
- KubeConfig, which has access to list, create, delete pods and services, configurable via `~/.kube/config`. You can verify permissions by running `kubectl auth can-i <list|create|edit|delete> pods`.
- Enabled Kubernetes DNS.
- `default` service account with [RBAC](#rbac) permissions to create, delete pods.

If you have problems setting up a Kubernetes cluster, then take a look at [how to setup a Kubernetes cluster](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/).

### Starting a Flink Session on Kubernetes

Once you have your Kubernetes cluster running and `kubectl` is configured to point to it, you can launch a Flink cluster in [Session Mode]({% link deployment/index.md %}#session-mode) via

{% highlight bash %}
# (1) Start Kubernetes session
$ ./bin/kubernetes-session.sh -Dkubernetes.cluster-id=my-first-flink-cluster

# (2) Submit example job

> $ ./bin/flink run \
>   --target kubernetes-session \
>   -Dkubernetes.cluster-id=my-first-flink-cluster \
>   ./examples/streaming/TopSpeedWindowing.jar

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
$ ./bin/flink run \
      --target kubernetes-session \
      -Dkubernetes.cluster-id=my-first-flink-cluster \
      ./examples/streaming/TopSpeedWindowing.jar
```
I'm fine with using the `$` as a command prefix. But we should add more indentation in that case. 
<img width="870" alt="Screenshot 2020-12-07 at 21 37 22" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1101012/101403001-d6a08b80-38d4-11eb-8669-c17381aafa1a.png">

Author: Ok, I will update this for all code snippets.

# (3) Stop Kubernetes session by deleting cluster deployment
$ kubectl delete deployment/my-first-flink-cluster

{% endhighlight %}

<span class="label label-info">Note</span> When using [Minikube](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/), you need to call `minikube tunnel` in order to [expose Flink's LoadBalancer service on Minikube](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/handbook/accessing/#using-minikube-tunnel).

Congratulations! You have successfully run a Flink application by deploying Flink on Kubernetes.

{% top %}

## Deployment Modes Supported by Flink on Kubernetes

> For production use, we recommend deploying Flink Applications in the [Per-Job]{% link deployment/index.md %}#per-job-mode) or [Application Mode]({% link deployment/index.md %}#application-mode), as these modes provide a better isolation for the Applications.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For production use, we recommend deploying Flink Applications in the [Per-Job]({% link deployment/index.md %}#per-job-mode) or [Application Mode]({% link deployment/index.md %}#application-mode), as these modes provide a better isolation for the Applications.
```

Another option is to remove `[Per-Job]{% link deployment/index.md %}#per-job-mode) or` completely as it's not supported by Flink on Kubernetes, anyway.

Author: I think I will remove it because it is not supported.

Flink on Kubernetes can use namespaces to launch Flink clusters.
The namespace can be configured via [kubernetes.namespace]({% link deployment/config.md %}#kubernetes-namespace).

### RBAC

Role-based access control ([RBAC](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/)) is a method of regulating access to compute or network resources based on the roles of individual users within an enterprise.
Users can configure RBAC roles and service accounts used by JobManager to access the Kubernetes API server within the Kubernetes cluster.

Every namespace has a default service account. However, the `default` service account may not have the permission to create or delete pods within the Kubernetes cluster.
Users may need to update the permission of the `default` service account or specify another service account that has the right role bound.

{% highlight bash %}
$ kubectl create clusterrolebinding flink-role-binding-default --clusterrole=edit --serviceaccount=default:default
{% endhighlight %}

If you do not want to use the `default` service account, use the following command to create a new `flink-service-account` service account and set the role binding.

> Then use the config option `-Dkubernetes.jobmanager.service-account=flink-service-account` to make the JobManager pod using the `flink-service-account` service account to create and delete TaskManager pods.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Then use the config option `-Dkubernetes.jobmanager.service-account=flink-service-account` to make the JobManager pod use the `flink-service-account` service account to create and delete TaskManager pods.
```

{% highlight bash %}
$ kubectl create serviceaccount flink-service-account
$ kubectl create clusterrolebinding flink-role-binding-flink --clusterrole=edit --serviceaccount=default:flink-service-account
{% endhighlight %}

> Please reference the official Kubernetes documentation on [RBAC Authorization](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/) for more information.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Please refer to the official Kubernetes documentation on [RBAC Authorization](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/) for more information.
```
